                         CHALLENGES FACED BY STUDENTS IN ONLINE LEARNING

The spread of COVID-19 has forced millions of students and teachers to move their communication online. The schools 
are closed until further notice and we have to adapt to a new lifestyle. Teachers and administrators are working 
hard during lockdown trying to keep students on track, shifting to online learning within the shortest time. But
now a days, people are opting Online Learning, their schedule is becoming very hectic, they do not want to go out,
they want their kids in front of them and the expansion of the internet and accessibility has led to an increase in the demand for online learning 
across the world. We all know that online learning is attracting more and more students for better learning 
experiences. But many of them encounter challenges that can cause hindrance in their learning. The benefits are 
getting suppressed by the challenges during their learning process. Here are some of the challenges faced by students 
and along with the suggestions to overcome them.

1.)Time Management 

Many students find difficulty in managing their time with online learning. Online learning is completely 
new for them and requires intensive work. They need a scheduled planner to manage their time in an effective 
manner. Online learning provides flexible time unlike traditional classrooms. But some face difficulties 
in adjusting to the time required for online learning. 

-How to overcome the challenge?

Time management is the most important factor in online learning. It needs time and effort for better 
learning outcomes. You should know the factors that can affect your timings during the learning process such as 
Avoid Distractions, Create To-Do List, Avoid Multitasking. These will definitely help you to solve your problem.

2.)Communication
Students lack effective communication skills during online learning. Teachers give assignments 
for improving reading and writing skills but there is a possibility that they might not be able to write 
so convincingly that educators understand the concept behind their assignments. There are some students
 who feel shy to communicate with their teachers and friends due to the new model of learning. It might 
happen due to lack of interest, poor technological skills with apps and video calls or unable to express
 themselves via live chats, emails or text messages.

-How to overcome the challenge?

To overcome this problem, 3-GB Education is offering O3 Education,i.e.,One-On-One Education. So, there will be 
only one student and one tutor in the class and student can easily interact and communicate. It will also increase 
the productivity of Student.

3.)Distraction
Learning from home is an amazing experience. You might expect things around you to be like a school 
campus. But at home things are different for example, you might want a massive classroom, parks, playgrounds,
 canteens, friends, teachers around you to guide and learn. But with online learning, you have to manage
 everything in one room with parents around you. You can be easily distracted by small things at home. Also,
due to large strength in meetings, teachers are unable to pay their attention on each and every student.

-How to overcome the challenge?

You should inform your parents and friends about the time of online learning so that there will be 
no distractions from their side. Restrict the study area for others to come during live sessions and 
video calls. Make sure you relax in the breaks set in the time table. With 3-GB Education, tutor can easily 
pay attention and Learning will increase. 

4.)Feedback 
Every student needs feedback for their performance during the learning process so that they can improve 
their learning abilities. They are not only observed during the tests or exams but also for each assignment
 and project. Research reveals that the students hardly visit their assignments to check their suggestions 
and comments. The feedback model with respect to online will be difficult for them to understand and implement.  

How to overcome the challenge?

With 3-GB Education, tutor can provide easy feedback in class only, Student need not to wait for weeks.Teachers 
can give your personalized guidance for improvement and identify your weaknesses and strengths. You 
can improve your learning pattern based on the feedback.


